# OOPS - Classes

JavaScript classes allow us to structure our application code and create instances of each class. A class can have property members, a constructor, methods, and property accessors.

Example  

```JavaScript
class User {
  firstName = '';
  lastName = '';
  #isActive = false;

  constructor(firstName, lastName, isActive = true) {
    this.firstName = firstName;
    this.lastName = lastName;
    this.#isActive = isActive;
  }

  getFullname() {
    return `${this.firstName} ${this.lastName}`;
  }

  get active() {
    return this.#isActive;
  }

  set active(value) {
    this.#isActive = value;
  }
}
```

The class statement wraps several elements that we can break down:  

* **Member:** The User class contains the firstName, lastName, and #isActive members. Class members will only be accessible from within the class itself. Instances of the User class will have access only to the public properties firstName and lastName. The #isActive property will not be available because it is private, as denoted by the # character in front of the property name.

* **Constructor:** The constructor is executed when we create an instance of the class. It is usually used to initialize the class members inside it with the parameters provided in the signature. We can also provide default values for parameters such as the isActive parameter.

* **Method:** A method represents a function and may return a value, such as the getFullname method, which constructs the full name of a user. It can also be defined as private, similar to class members.

* **Property accessor:** A property accessor is defined by prefixing a method with the set keyword to make it writable and the get keyword to make it readable, followed by the property name we want to expose. The active method is a property accessor that returns the value of the #isActive member.

A class can also extend members and functionality of other classes.  

```JavaScript
class Customer extends User {
  taxNumber = '';

  constructor(firstName, lastName) {
    super(firstName, lastName);
  }
}
```

In the preceding snippet, the `Customer` class extends the `User` class, which exposes `firstName` and `lastName` properties. Any instance of the `Customer` class can use those properties by default. We can also override methods from the `User` class by appending a method with the same name. The `constructor` is required to call the `super` method, which points to the `constructor` of the `User` class.
