# What is Node.js?

From the official website of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en):  
> Node.js is a free, open-source, cross-platform JavaScript runtime environment
> that lets developers create servers, web apps, command line tools and scripts.

**free**  
Node.js is free to use, you don't need to purchase any license to use it.

**open-source**  
Node.js codebase is publically available on Github - [Node.js Github](https://github.com/nodejs/node).
Anyone can study the code and contribute to this project.

**cross-platform**  
Node.js can be installed on multiple platforms like Mac, Windows, Linux etc.

**JavaScript Runtime Environment**  
An environment that allows to run JavaScript.

Using Node.js we can run JavaScript outside of the browser.

---

**What is Node.js?**  
> Node.js is a JavaScript runtime,
> its not a programming language,
> its not a framework.

Node.js is made up of - V8 JavaScript Engine & libuv  
Node.js = V8 + libuv

**What is a JavaScript runtime?**  
An environment that allows to run JavaScript.

**What is libuv?**  
libuv is a multi-platform C library that provides support
for asynchronous I/O operations based on event loops.

Things that are not part of the "V8 JavaScript Engine" like

- file operations (read/write etc)
- network operations
- database operations

and so on...  
they are handled by "libuv".

---

**What is Node.js?**

Node.js is a "JavaScript Runtime Environment",  
allows JavaScript to be executed outside the browser.  

Node.js = V8 JavaScript Engine + libuv  

Node.js operates on  

* single-threaded
* event-driven architecture
* uses non-blocking asynchronous I/O model

This makes Node.js efficient for handling concurrent requests.
