# Top 5 built-in modules in Node.js

**fs**  

The node:fs module enables interacting with the file system in a way modeled on standard POSIX functions.

Some of the functions are:  

* `fs.readFile()` - Reads the content of the specified file.
* `fs.writeFile()` - Writes data to a file. If the file doesn't exist, it is created.
* `fs.appendFile()` - Appends data to a file. If the file doesn't exist, it is created.
* `fs.unlink()` - Deletes the specified file.
* `fs.readdir()` - Reads a directory.
* `fs.mkdir()` - Creates a new directory.
* `fs.rmdir()` - Removes the specified directory.

Reference:  
[Node.js > File system](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/fs.html)

---

**path**  

The node:path module provides utilities for working with file and directory paths.

Some of the functions are:  

* `path.join()` - The path.join() method joins all given path segments together using the platform-specific separator as a delimiter, then normalizes the resulting path.
* `path.resolve()` - The path.resolve() method resolves a sequence of paths or path segments into an absolute path.
* `path.dirname()` - The path.dirname() method returns the directory name of a path, similar to the Unix dirname command. Trailing directory separators are ignored.
* `path.extname()` - The path.extname() method returns the extension of the path, from the last occurrence of the . (period) character to end of string in the last portion of the path. If there is no . in the last portion of the path, or if there are no . characters other than the first character of the basename of path (see path.basename()) , an empty string is returned.
* `path.parse()` - The path.parse() method returns an object whose properties represent significant elements of the path. Trailing directory separators are ignored. The returned object will have the following properties:  
    * dir <string>
    * root <string>
    * base <string>
    * name <string>
    * ext <string>

Reference:
[Node.js > Path](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/path.html)

---

**os**  

The node:os module provides operating system-related utility methods and properties.  
This is used by developers to do operations specific to OS in order to make cross-platform applications.

Some of the functions are:  

* `os.type()` - Returns the operating system name. For example, it returns 'Linux' on Linux, 'Darwin' on macOS, and 'Windows_NT' on Windows.
* `os.userInfo()` - Returns information about the currently effective user. On POSIX platforms, this is typically a subset of the password file. The returned object includes the `username`, `uid`, `gid`, `shell`, and `homedir`. On Windows, the `uid` and `gid` fields are -1, and `shell` is null.
* `os.totalmem()` - Returns the total amount of system memory in bytes as an integer.
* `os.freemem()` - Returns the amount of free system memory in bytes as an integer.

Reference:  
[Node.js > OS](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/os.html)

---

**events**  

Node.js has built-in module that helps us to work with events - "Events" module.  
[Node.js > Events](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html)

When the `EventEmitter` object emits an event, all of the functions attached to that specific event are  
called synchronously. Any values returned by the called listeners are ignored and discarded.

The `EventEmitter` object has two methods  

* `on()` method is used to register listeners (callback functions)
* `emit()` method is used to trigger the event

Example  

```JavaScript
// Example #1
const EventEmitter = require('events');

// Subject - Celebrity Keanu Reeves will emit events about his life/movies.
const keanuReeves = new EventEmitter();

// Observer - Observer 1 subscribed to Keanu Reeves > John Wick Trailer Launch Event.
keanuReeves.on(
    'John Wick Trailer Launch Event',
    () => {
        console.log('Congratulations!');
    }
);

// Observer - Observer 2 subscribed to Keanu Reeves > John Wick Trailer Launch Event.
keanuReeves.on(
    'John Wick Trailer Launch Event',
    () => {
        console.log('Trailer is awesome ;) Very much excited for the movie!');
    }
);

// There are two observers for this event.
keanuReeves.emit('John Wick Trailer Launch Event');
// No observers for this event.
keanuReeves.emit('At Cannes Film Festival');
// There are two observers for this event.
keanuReeves.emit('John Wick Trailer Launch Event');

process.on('beforeExit', (code) => {
    console.log('Process beforeExit event with code: ', code);
});

process.on('exit', (code) => {
    console.log('Process exit event with code: ', code);
});

// Example #2
// A racer will emit events about his race.
const aRacer = new EventEmitter();

// A fan subscriber.
aRacer.on(
    'Race',
    (result) => {
        if (result === 'win') {
            console.log('Well done! Congratulations! :)');
        } else {
            console.log('Well tried! Better luck next time! :(');
        }
    }
);

// A critic subscriber.
aRacer.on(
    'Race',
    (result) => {
        if (result === 'win') {
            console.log('Boo! I could have done better than that! ;)');
        } else {
            console.log('Not enough! Go get some training! ;)');
        }
    }
);

aRacer.emit('Race', 'win');
aRacer.emit('Race', 'lose');

console.log('Last line...');
```

Reference:  
* [Node.js > Events](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html)  
* [The Node.js Event emitter](https://nodejs.org/en/learn/asynchronous-work/the-nodejs-event-emitter)  

---

**http/https**  

http  
The HTTP interfaces in Node.js are designed to support many features of the protocol which have been traditionally difficult to use. In particular, large, possibly chunk-encoded, messages. The interface is careful to never buffer entire requests or responses, so the user is able to stream data.

https  
HTTPS is the HTTP protocol over TLS/SSL. In Node.js this is implemented as a separate module.

Using http/https module we can create a server in Node.js, that listens to incoming HTTP requests  
and returns an HTTP response to the client.

Reference:  
* [Node.js > HTTP](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html)  
* [Node.js > HTTPS](https://nodejs.org/api/https.html)
